Java resilience documentation (#214)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/java/features/resilience/resilience.md

> ---

Author: I use an offline spellchecker & VS Code for writing. I don't see a VS Code plugin for Grammarly. And I am hesitant to install it to my browser since it can read just about any data of all sites I visit.

How do you run it?

> ---

Reviewer: Well, I run it as a web-app freemium and it's damn good! I'd be happy if SAP paid me that 70 bucks yearly license to use the pro version. Your spelling is Ok, but that's not everything that can be caught by the NLP tool like Grammarly. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10460752/86289919-cb8e5480-bbec-11ea-97ae-65b1fad96235.png)
Make an account and give it a try. I do use it as a browser plugin, but by the settings, it should read only what I type. I don't what to have any polemics about it, but having some standard is good to avoid needless discussion.

id: resilience
title: Resilience Capabilities of the SAP Cloud SDK for Java
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_label: Resilience
description: This article describes how the SAP Cloud SDK for Java can be used to introduce resilience patterns into an application.
keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- resilience
- multi tenancy
- cloud native
- timeout
image:
---

The SAP Cloud SDK for Java provides abstractions for some frequently used resilience patterns like timeout, retry or circuit breaker.
Applying such patterns helps making an application more resilient against failures it might encounter.

## Consuming the Resilience API

The SDK allows to run any code in the context of one or more resilience patterns.

> The are two essential building blocks to achieving this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two essential building blocks for achieving this:
```

:::

#### Failures and Fallbacks

An operation might fail for two reasons:

1. The operation itself encounters a failure and throws an error or exception
2. A resilience pattern causes the operation to fail (e.g. the circuit breaker prevents further invocations)

The SDK wraps all kind of checked and unchecked exceptions into a `ResilienceRuntimeException` and throws them.

To deal with failures one can either catch the `ResilienceRuntimeException` or provide a fallback function:

```java
executeCallable(() -> operation(), configuration,
(throwable) -> {
    log.debug("Encountered a failure in operation: ", throwable);
    log.debug("Proceeding with fallback value: {}", fallback);
    return fallback;
});
```

In the case of Callable this relieves you of the need to catch the exception at the outer level.

### Building a Resilience Configuration

> A new `ResilienceConfiguration` _with default values_ is created by providing an identifier for it:

Reviewer 3: Consider pointing our for what purpose the identifier is used. I think it is not obvious for the consumer that this is necessary.

Author: Done

<tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/Callable.html">Callable</a></td>
    <td>May throw checked or unchecked Exceptions</td>
</tr><tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/function/Supplier.html">Supplier</a></td><td>May only throw unchecked Exceptions</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

Noticeable is the difference in signatures: _Callable_ throws a _checked exception_ while _Supplier_ does not.
So you can choose whatever fits your use case best.

#### Executions

The decorator allows for three different ways of applying a configuration: 

<table><tbody>
<tr>
    <td><em>Execute</em></td>
    <td>Immediately runs the operation</td>
</tr><tr>
    <td><em>Decorate</em></td>
    <td>Returns a new operation to be run later</td>
</tr><tr>
    <td><em>Queue</em></td>
    <td>Immediately runs the operation asynchronously</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

In case your operation should run asynchronously we highly recommend you leverage the `queue` functionality. The decorator will ensure the [Thread Context](../multi-tenancy/thread-context.md) with Tenant and Principal information is propagated correctly to new Threads.

> :::note

Reviewer 2: some syntactical issue here.

Note that the Resilience Decorator will try to propagate the current [Thread Context](../multi-tenancy/thread-context.md) at the _time the decorator is invoked_. This is important when you are decorating a Callable or Supplier and running it later. The Thread Context must be available whenever `decorateCallable` or `decorateSupplier` is evaluated. So if the call to `ResilienceDecorator` should take place asynchronously you should [follow these steps](../multi-tenancy/thread-context.md#running-asynchronous-operations) to ensure the Thread Context is available.

> :::

Reviewer 2: Again some syntax issue. I am not sure what ::: does, hence I cant make a suggestion for it.

Author: _It's not a bug, [it's a feature](https://v2.docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/#calloutsadmonitions)_

Reviewer 2: oki:)

A new `ResilienceConfiguration` _with default values_ is created by providing an identifier for it:

```java
configuration = ResilienceConfiguration.of("identifier");
```

The identifier can be either a string or a class.
In case of the latter the (full) classname will be used as identifier.

Check [the JavaDoc](https://help.sap.com/http.svc/rc/b579bf8578954412aea2b458e8452201/1.0/en-US/com/sap/cloud/sdk/cloudplatform/resilience/ResilienceConfiguration.html#of-java.lang.String-) for which patterns and parameters will be applied by default.
You can also create a configuration with all patterns disabled:

```java
configuration = ResilienceConfiguration.empty("identifier");
```

Individual resilience patterns are configured via dedicated builder classes like `TimeLimiterConfiguration` and are added to the configuration via dedicated setters, e.g. `timeLimiterConfiguration()`.
For details see the list of [Resilience Capabilities](#resilience-capabilities) below.

#### Multi Tenancy

The SDK is capable of applying the different resilience patterns in a tenant and principal aware manner.
Consider for example the Bulkhead pattern which limits the amount of parallel executions.

> If the operation is tenant specific one would probably want to avoid one tenant blocking all others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the operation is tenant specific then you would probably want to avoid one tenant blocking all others.
```

Author: Is there a specific reason why you would suggest `you` over `one`?

Reviewer 2: In my first read, the sentence seemed to me a bit unclear because of "one" occurring twice. In general, I dont mind using one/you/we (either of these).

Author: Good point!

---
id: resilience
title: Resilience Capabilities of the SAP Cloud SDK for Java
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_label: Resilience

> description: This article describes how the SAP Cloud SDK for Java can be used to introduce resilience patterns into an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to use SAP Cloud SDK for Java to introduce resilience patterns into your application.
```

keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- resilience
- multi tenancy
- cloud native
- timeout
image:
---

> The SAP Cloud SDK for Java provides abstractions for some frequently used resilience patterns like timeout, retry or circuit breaker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK for Java provides abstractions for some frequently used resilience patterns like
- timeout
- retry
- circuit breaker.
```

Author: I don't want to enumerate here because it might give the false impression that this is a comprehensive list. I really only mention examples here to get the reader into the topic. Having an enumeration in the first sentence would be a bit too disruptive I think.

Reviewer: All it does is captures attention and make it easier to read because of more structured representation. Same as with code, but writing is not coding... I'll leave it to your taste. I don't see much false impression as `some frequently used` makes it obvious for me and having it as a list makes it pleasure for my eyes if I want to remind my self what you mentioned again as the most frequently used patterns.

Applying such patterns helps making an application more resilient against failures it might encounter.

> Also check out our [dedicated tutorial](https://developers.sap.com/tutorials/s4sdk-resilience.html) on the topic!

Reviewer: It makes sense to put it to the end of this doc to keep the reader's flow.

Author: I would rather have it at the top so that in case the reader is looking more for a tutorial it is more prominent and can jump there quickly instead of scrolling through the whole thing. Maybe a slight re-wording would help to better integrate it?

Author: Update it.

> ## Consuming the Resilience API

Reviewer: ## Making your code resilient

Author: I would like to leave it like it is: Generally I don't like `making` so much. Also it's not the code that is made resilient, but it's execution.

Reviewer: I don't like consuming because SAP is the first place I see it overused. Maybe somewhere in EPAM and Oracle, it's also like this. I'm also not a Java guy, where it might be a key term for using any API. It just makes it all very generic. Again, I'm looking from the writers' perspective, and from the audience, we're tackling. I read a lot of docs and never have seen this term. I'm referring to FB, Google, Amazon. I have my Alexa skill and couple of FB apps. But maybe for our audience, it's the right term.

Author: ```suggestion
## Using the Resilience API
```
